 Smart Connection- Acquiring accurate and reliable data from machines and their components is the first step in developing a cyber-physical system application. The data might be directly measured by sensors or obtained from controller or enterprise manufacturing systems such as ERP, MES, SCM and CMM. Two important factors at this level have to be considered. First, considering various types of data, a seamless and tether-free method to manage data acquisition procedure and transferring data to the central server is required where specific protocols such as MTConnect, etc. are effectively useful. On the other hand, selecting proper sensors (type and specification) is the second important consideration for the first level. Data-to-Information Conversion-Meaningful information has to be inferred from the data. Currently, there are several tools and methodologies available for the data to information conversion level. In recent years, extensive focus has been applied to develop these algorithms specifically for prognostics and health management applications. By calculating health value, estimated remaining useful life, etc., the second level of CPS architecture brings self-awareness to machines. Cyber-The cyber level acts as central information hub in this architecture. Information is being pushed to it from every connected machine to form the machines network. Having massive information gathered, specific analytics has to be used to extract additional information that provide better insight over the status of individual machines among the fleet. These analytics provide machines with self-comparison ability, where the performance of a single machine can be compared with and rated among the fleet and on the other hand, similarities between machine performance and previous assets (historical information) can be measured to predict the future behavior of the machinery. In this paper we briefly introduce an efficient yet effective methodology for managing and analyzing information at cyber level. Cognition-Implementing CPS upon this level generates a thorough knowledge of the monitored system. Proper presentation of the acquired knowledge to expert users supports the correct decision to be taken. Since comparative information as well as individual machine status is available, decision on priority of tasks to optimize the maintaining process can be made. For this level, proper info-graphics are necessary to completely transfer acquired knowledge to the users. Configuration-The configuration level is the feedback from cyber space to physical space and act as supervisory control to make machines self-configure and self-adaptive. This stage acts as resilience control system (RCS) to apply the corrective and preventive decisions, which has been made in cognition level, to the monitored system.[25][26] Big Data Lake - With the changing face of business and IT sector, capturing and storage of data has emerged into a sophisticated system. The big data lake allows an organization to shift its focus from centralized control to a shared model to respond to the changing dynamics of information management. This enables quick segregation of data into the data lake thereby reducing the overhead time.[36] Technologies[edit] Big data requires exceptional technologies to efficiently process large quantities of data within tolerable elapsed times. A 2011 McKinsey report[37] suggests suitable technologies include A/B testing, crowdsourcing, data fusion and integration, genetic algorithms, machine learning, natural language processing, signal processing, simulation, time series analysis and visualisation. Multidimensional big data can also be represented as tensors, which can be more efficiently handled by tensor-based computation,[38] such asmultilinear subspace learning.[39] Additional technologies being applied to big data include massively parallel-processing (MPP) databases, search-based applications, data mining, distributed file systems, distributed databases, cloud based infrastructure (applications, storage and computing resources) and the Internet.[citation needed] Some but not all MPP relational databases have the ability to store and manage petabytes of data. Implicit is the ability to load, monitor, back up, and optimize the use of the large data tables in the RDBMS.[40] DARPA’s Topological Data Analysis program seeks the fundamental structure of massive data sets and in 2008 the technology went public with the launch of a company calledAyasdi.[41] The practitioners of big data analytics processes are generally hostile to slower shared storage,[42] preferring direct-attached storage (DAS) in its various forms from solid state drive (SSD) to high capacity SATA disk buried inside parallel processing nodes. The perception of shared storage architectures—Storage area network (SAN) and Network-attached storage (NAS) —is that they are relatively slow, complex, and expensive. These qualities are not consistent with big data analytics systems that thrive on system performance, commodity infrastructure, and low cost. Real or near-real time information delivery is one of the defining characteristics of big data analytics. Latency is therefore avoided whenever and wherever possible. Data in memory is good—data on spinning disk at the other end of a FC SAN connection is not. The cost of a SAN at the scale needed for analytics applications is very much higher than other storage techniques. There are advantages as well as disadvantages to shared storage in big data analytics, but big data analytics practitioners as of 2011 did not favour it.[43] Big data has increased the demand of information management specialists in that Software AG, Oracle Corporation, IBM, Microsoft, SAP,EMC, HP and Dell have spent more than $15 billion on software firms specializing in data management and analytics. In 2010, this industry was worth more than $100 billion and was growing at almost 10 percent a year: about twice as fast as the software business as a whole.[1] Developed economies make increasing use of data-intensive technologies. There are 4.6 billion mobile-phone subscriptions worldwide and between 1 billion and 2 billion people accessing the internet.[1] Between 1990 and 2005, more than 1 billion people worldwide entered the middle class which means more and more people who gain money will become more literate which in turn leads to information growth. The world's effective capacity to exchange information through telecommunication networks was 281 petabytes in 1986, 471 petabytes in 1993, 2.2 exabytes in 2000, 65 exabytes in 2007[8] and it is predicted that the amount of traffic flowing over the internet will reach 667 exabytes annually by 2014.[1] It is estimated that one third of the globally stored information is in the form of alphanumeric text and still image data,[44] which is the format most useful for most big data applications. This also shows the potential of yet unused data (i.e. in the form of video and audio content). While many vendors offer off-the-shelf solutions for Big Data, experts recommend the development of in-house solutions custom-tailored to solve the company's problem at hand if the company has sufficient technical capabilities.[45] Government[edit] The use and adoption of Big Data within governmental processes is beneficial and allows efficiencies in terms of cost, productivity, anTo handle the protection with above mentioned file system, UNIX attach user id of owner with specific file and use seven protection bit. Basically there is id attribute of each file and the setter method of this file is allowed to privileged program that is accessed by specific user. UNIX not use user visible locks in its file system. Like if two program using one file and modifying data then what happens. d innovation. That said, this process does not come without its flaws. Data analysis often requires multiple parts of government (central and local) to work in collaboration and create new and innovative processes to deliver the desired outcome. Below are the thought leading examples within the Governmental Big Data space. United States of America[edit] In 2012, the Obama administration announced the Big Data Research and Development Initiative, to explore how big data could be used to address important problems faced by the government.[46] The initiative is composed of 84 different big data programs spread across six departments.[47] Big data analysis played a large role in Barack Obama's successful 2012 re-election campaign.[48] The United States Federal Government owns six of the ten most powerful supercomputers in the world.[49] The Utah Data Center is a data center currently being constructed by the United States National Security Agency. When finished, the facility will be able to handle a large amount of information collected by the NSA over the Internet. The exact amount of storage space is unknown, but more recent sources claim it will be on the order of a fewexabytes.[50][51][52] India[edit] Big data analysis was, in parts, responsible for the BJP and its allies to win a highly successful Indian General Election 2014.[53] The Indian Government utilises numerous techniques to ascertain how the Indian electorate is responding to government action, as well as ideas for policy augmentation United Kingdom[edit] Examples of uses of big data in public services: Data on prescription drugs: by connecting origin, location and the time of each prescription, a research unit was able to exemplify the considerable delay between the release of any given drug, and a UK-wide adaptation of the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence guidelines. This suggests that new/most up-to-date drugs take some time to filter through to the general patient.[citation needed] Joining up data: a local authority blended data about services, such as road gritting rotas, with services for people at risk, such as 'meals on wheels'. The connection of data allowed the local authority to avoid any weather related delay.[citation needed] International development[edit] Research on the effective usage of information and communication technologies for development (also known as ICT4D) suggests that big data technology can make important contributions but also present unique challenges to International development.[54][55] Advancements in big data analysis offer cost-effective opportunities to improve decision-making in critical development areas such as health care, employment, economic productivity, crime, security, and natural disaster and resource management.[56][57] However, longstanding challenges for developing regions such as inadequate technological infrastructure and economic and human resource scarcity exacerbate existing concerns with big data such as privacy, imperfect methodology, and interoperability issues.[56] Manufacturing[edit] Based on TCS 2013 Global Trend Study, improvements in supply planning and product quality provide the greatest benefit of big data for manufacturing.[58] Big data provides an infrastructure for transparency in manufacturing industry, which is the ability to unravel uncertainties such as inconsistent component performance and availability. Predictive manufacturing as an applicable approach toward near-zero downtime and transparency requires vast amount of data and advanced prediction tools for a systematic process of data into useful information.[59] A conceptual framework of predictive manufacturing begins with data acquisition where different type of sensory data is available to acquire such as acoustics, vibration, pressure, current, voltage and controller data. Vast amount of sensory data in addition to historical data construct the big data in manufacturing. The generated big data acts as the input into predictive tools and preventive strategies such as Prognostics and Health Management (PHM).[60] 