volumes devoted to this subject.[1] 336. Some of the adaptations which favor or ensure cross fertilization are peculiar to the particular kind of blossom. Orchids, Milkweeds, Kalmia, Iris, and papilionaceous flowers each have their own special contrivances, quite different for each. 337. Irregular flowers (253) and especially irregular corollas are usually adaptations to insect-visitation. So are all _Nectaries_, whether hollow spurs, sacs, or other concavities in which nectar is secreted, and all _nectariferous glands_. 338. Moreover, there are two arrangements for cross fertilization common to hermaphrodite flowers in various different families of plants, which have received special names, _Dichogamy_ and _Heterogony_. 339. =Dichogamy= is the commoner case. Flowers are _dichogamous_ when the anthers discharge their pollen either before or after the stigmas of that flower are in a condition to receive it. Such flowers are _Proterandrous_, when the anthers are earlier than the stigmas, as in Gentians, Campanula, Epilobium, etc. _Proterogynous_, when the stigmas are mature and moistened for the reception of pollen, before the anthers of that blossom are ready to supply it, and are withered before that pollen can be supplied. Plantains or Ribworts (mostly wind-fertilized) are strikingly proterogynous: so is Amorpha, our Papaws, Scrophularia, and in a less degree the blossom of Pears, Hawthorns, and Horse-chestnut. 340. In Sabbatia, the large-flowered species of Epilobium, and strikingly in Clerodendron, the dichogamy is supplemented and perfected by movements of the stamens and style, one or both, adjusted to make sure of cross fertilization. 341. =Heterogony.= This is the case in which hermaphrodite and fertile flowers of two sorts are produced on different individuals of the same species; one sort having higher anthers and lower stigmas, the other having higher stigmas and lower anthers. Thus reciprocally disposed, a visiting insect carries pollen from the high anthers of the one to the high stigma of the other, and from the low anthers of the one to the low stigma of the other. These plants are practically as if diœcious, with the advantage that both kinds are fruitful. Houstonia and Mitchella, or Partridge-berry, are excellent and familiar examples. These are cases of _Heterogone Dimorphism_, the relative lengths being only short and long reciprocally. _Heterogone Trimorphism_, in which there is a mid-length as well as a long and a short set of stamens and style; occurs in Lythrum Salicaria and some species of Oxalis. 342. There must be some essential advantage in cross fertilization or cross breeding. Otherwise all these various, elaborate, and exquisitely adjusted adaptations would be aimless. Doubtless the advantage is the same as that which is realized in all the higher animals by the distinction of sexes. § 2. ACTION OF POLLEN, AND FORMATION OF THE EMBRYO. 343. =Pollen-growth.= A grain of pollen may be justly likened to one of the simple bodies (_spores_) which answer for seeds in Cryptogamous plants. Like one of these, it is capable of germination. When deposited upon the moist surface of the stigma (or in some cases even when at a certain distance) it grows from some point, its living inner coat breaking through the inert outer coat, and protruding in the form of a delicate tube. This as it lengthens penetrates the loose tissue of the stigma and of a loose conducting tissue in the style, feeds upon the nourishing liquid matter there provided, reaches the cavity of the ovary, enters the orifice of an ovule, and attaches its extremity to a sac, or the lining of a definite cavity, in the ovule, called the _Embryo-Sac_. 344. =Origination of the Embryo.= A globule of living matter in the embryo-sac is formed, and is in some way placed in close proximity to the apex of the pollen tube; it probably absorbs the contents of the latter; it then sets up a special growth, and the _Embryo_ (8-10) or rudimentary plantlet in the seed is the result. FOOTNOTES: [1] Beginning with one by C. C. Sprengel in 1793, and again in our day with Darwin, "On the Various Contrivances by which Orchids are fertilized by Insects," and in succeeding works. Section XIV. THE FRUIT. 345. =Its Nature.= The ovary matures into the Fruit. In the strictest sense the fruit is the seed-vessel, technically named the PERICARP. But practically it may include other parts organically connected with the pericarp. Especially the calyx, or a part of it, is often incorporated with the ovary, so as to be undistinguishably a portion of the pericarp, and it even forms along with the receptacle the whole bulk of such edible fruits as apples and pears. The receptacle is an obvious part in blackberries, and is the whole edible portion in the strawberry. 346. Also a cluster of distinct carpels may, in ripening, be consolidated or compacted, so as practically to be taken for one fruit. Such are raspberries, blackberries, the Magnolia fruit, etc. Moreover, the ripened product of many flowers may be compacted or grown together so as to form a single compound fruit. 347. =Its kinds= have therefore to be distinguished. Also various names of common use in descriptive botany have to be mentioned and defined. 348. In respect to composition, accordingly, fruits may be classified into _Simple_, those which result from the ripening of a single pistil, and consist only of the matured ovary, either by itself, as in a cherry, or with calyx-tube completely incorporated with it, as in a gooseberry or cranberry. _Aggregate_, when a cluster of carpels of the same flower are crowded into a mass; as in raspberries and blackberries. [Illustration: Fig. 366. Forming fruit (capsule) of Gaultheria, with calyx thickening around its base. 367. Section of same mature, the berry-like calyx nearly enclosing the capsule.] [Illustration: Fig. 368. Section of a part of a strawberry. Compare with Fig. 360.] [Illustration: Fig. 369. Similar section of part of a blackberry. 370. One of its component simple fruits (drupe) in section, showing the pulp, stone, and contained seed; more enlarged. Compare with Fig. 375.] _Accessory_ or _Anthocarpous_, when the suCurrently most reading is either of the printed word from ink or toner on paper, such as in a book, magazine, newspaper, leaflet, or notebook, or of electronic displays, such as displays, television, mobile phones or e-readers.rroundings or supports of the pistil make up a part of the mass; as does the loose calyx changed into a fleshy and berry-like envelope of our Wintergreen (Gaultheria, Fig. 366, 367) and Buffalo-berry, which are otherwise simple fruits. In an aggregate fruit such as the strawberry the great mass is receptacle (Fig. 360, 368); and in the blackberry (Fig. 369) the juicy receptacle forms the central part of the savory mass. _Multiple_ or _Collective_, when formed from several flowers consolidated into one mass, of which the common receptacle or axis of inflorescence, the floral envelopes, and even the bracts, etc., make a part. A mulberry (Fig. 408, which superficially much resembles a blackberry) is of this multiple sort. A pine-apple is another example. 349. In respect to texture or consistence, fruits may be distinguished into three kinds, viz.-- _Fleshy Fruits_, those which are more or less soft and juicy throughout; _Stone Fruits_, or _Drupaceous_, the outer part fleshy like a berry, the inner hard or stony, like a nut; and _Dry Fruits_, those which have no flesh or pulp. 350. In reference to the way of disseminating the contained seed, fruits are said to be _Indehiscent_ when they do not open at maturity. Fleshy fruits and stone fruits are of course indehiscent. The seed becomes free only through decay or by being fed upon by animals. Those which escape digestion are thus disseminated by the latter. Of dry fruits many are indehiscent; and these are variously arranged to be transported by animals. Some burst irregularly; many are _Dehiscent_, that is, they split open regularly along certain lines, and discharge the seeds. A dehiscent fruit almost always contains many or several seeds, or at least more than one seed. [Illustration: Fig. 371. Leafy shoot and berry (cut across) of the larger Cranberry, Vaccinium macrocarpon.] [Illustration: Fig. 372, 373. Pepo of Gourd, in section. 373. One carpel of same in diagram.] [Illustration: Fig. 374. Longitudinal and transverse sections of a pear (pome).] 351. The principal kinds of fruit which have received substantive names and are of common use in descriptive botany are the following. Of fleshy fruits the leading kind is 352. =The Berry=, such as the gooseberry and currant, the blueberry and cranberry (Fig. 371), the tomato, and the grape. Here the whole flesh is soft throughout. The orange is a berry with a leathery rind. 353. =The Pepo=, or _Gourd-fruit_, is a hard-rinded berry, belonging to the Gourd family, such as the pumpkin, squash, cucumber, and melon, Fig. 372, 373. 354. =The Pome= is a name applied to the apple, pear (Fig. 374), and quince; fleshy fruits, like a berry, but the principal thickness is calyx, only the papery pods arranged like a star in the core really belonging 