 Meteorology is the interdisciplinary scientific study of the atmosphere. It observes the changes in temperature, air pressure, moisture and wind direction. Usually, temperature, pressure, wind measurements and humidity are the variables that are measured by a thermometer, barometer, anemometer, and hygrometer, respectively. There are many methods of collecting data and Radar, Lidar, satellites are some of them. Weather forecasts are made by collecting quantitative data about the current state of the atmosphere. The main issue arise in this prediction is, it involves high-dimensional characters. To overcome this issue, it is necessary to first analyze and simplify the data before proceeding with other analysis. Some data mining techniques are appropriate in this context. Data mining, the extraction of hidden predictive information from large databases, is a powerful new technology with great potential to aBiology is a natural science concerned with the study of life and living organisms, including their structure, function, growth,evolution, distribution, and taxonomy.nalyze important information in data warehouses. Consequently, data mining consists of more than collecting and analyzing data, it also includes analyze and predictions. The tools which are used for analysis can include statistical models, mathematical algorithms and machine learning methods. These methods include algorithms that improve their performance automatically through experience, such as neural networks or decision trees[1] The network architecture and signal process used to model nervous systems can roughly be divided into three categories, each based on a different philosophy. Feedforward neural network: the input information defines the initial signals into set of output signals.[2] Feedback network: the input information defines the initial activity state of a feedback system, and after state transitions, the asymptotic final state is identified as the outcome of the computation.[3] Neighboring cells in a neural network compete in their activities by means of mutual lateral interactions, and develop adaptively into specific detectors of different signal patterns. In this category, learning is called competitive, unsupervised learning or self-organizing.[4] Self-organizing Maps[edit] Self-Organizing Map (SOM) is one of the most popular neural network models, which is especially suitable for high dimensional data visualization, clustering and modeling. It uses an unsupervised learning for creating a set of prototype vectors representing the data. The SOM was introduced to meteorological and climatic sciences in late 1990s as a clustering and pattern recognition method.[5] Nowadays, Self-Organized maps have been applied in several meteorological problems, such as classifying climate modes, cloud classification,[6] classification of TEMP data,[7] extreme weather and rainfall pattern analysis. The Self-Organizing Map projects high-dimensional input data onto a low dimensional (usually two-dimensional) space.[8] Because it preserves the neighborhood relations of the input data, the SOM is a topology-preserving technique. There are many types of topologies used in SOM: grid, hexagonal, random are some of them.[9] The output neurons are arranged according to the given topology. The distances between neurons are calculated using a distance function.[10] There are several distance functions which can be used such as Euclidean distance, box distance, link distance andManhattan distance. According to the first input of the input vector, System chooses the output neuron (winning neuron) that closely matches with the given input vector. Then determining a neighborhood of excited neurons around the winner; and finally, updating all of the excited neurons. It must select the neighborhood function that permits to calculate the nodes “nearest” to the winner.[11] Some neighborhood functions are the Gaussian, the Bubble and the EP.[12] The outcome weight vectors of the SOM nodes are reshaped back to have characteristic data patterns. This learning procedure leads to a topologically ordered mapping of the input data. Similar patterns are mapped onto neighboring regions on the map, while dissimilar patterns are located further apart. Data mining in agriculture is a very recent research topic. It consists in the application of data mining techniques to agriculture. Recent technologies are nowadays able to provide a lot of information on agricultural-related activities, which can then be analyzed in order to find important information.[1] A related, but not equivalent term is precision agriculture. Wine is widely produced all around the world. The fermentation process of the wine is very important, because it can impact the productivity of wine-related industries and also the quality of wine. If we were able to predict how the fermentation is going to be at the early stages of the process, we could interfere with the process in order to guarantee a regular and smooth fermentation. Fermentations are nowadays studied by using different techniques, such as, for example, the k-means algorithm,[2] and a technique for classification based on the concept of biclustering.[3] Note that these works are different from the ones where a classification of different kinds of wine is performed. See the wiki page Classification of wine for more details. Detection of diseases from sounds issued by animals[edit] The detection of animal's diseases in farms can impact positively the productivity of the farm, because sick animals can cause contaminations. Moreover, the early detection of the diseases can allow the farmer to cure the animal as soon as the disease appears. Sounds issued by pigs can be analyzed for the detection of diseases. In particular, their coughs can be studied, because they indicate their sickness. A computational system is under development which is able to monitor pig sounds by microphones installed in the farm, and which is also able to discriminate among the different sounds that can be detected.[4] Sorting apples by watercores[edit] Before going to market, apples are checked and the ones showing some defects are removed. However, there are also invisible defects, that can spoil the apple flavor and look. An example of invisible defect is the watercore. This is an internal apple disorder that can affect the longevity of the fruit. Apples with slight or mild watercores are sweeter, but apples with moderate to sever degree of watercore cannot be stored for any length of time. Moreover, a few fruits with severe watercore could spoil a whole batch of apples. For this reason, a computational system is under study which takes X-ray photographs of the fruit while they run on conveyor belts, and which is also able to analyse (by data mining techniques) the taken pictures and estimate the probability that the fruit contains watercores.[5] Optimizing pesticide use by data mining[edit] Recent studies by agriculture researchers in Pakistan (one of the top four cotton producers of the world) showed that attempts of cotton crop yield maximization through pro-pesticide state policies have led to a dangerously high pesticide use. These studies have reported a negative correlation between pesticide use and crop yield in Pakistan. Hence excessive use (or abuse) of pesticides is harming the farmers with adverse financial, environmental and social impacts. By data mining the cotton Pest Scouting data along with the meteorological recordings it was shown that how pesticide use can be optimized (reduced). Clustering of data revealed interesting patterns of farmer practices along with pesticide use dynamics and hence help identify the reasons for this pesticide abuse.[6] Explaining pesticide abuse by data mining[edit] To monitor cotton growth, different government departments and agencies in Pakistan have been recording pest scouting, agriculture and metrological data for decades. Coarse estimates of just the cotton pest scouting data recorded stands at around 1.5 million records, and growing. The primary agro-met data recorded has never been digitized, integrated or standardized to give a complete picture, and hence cannot support decision making, thus requiring an Agriculture Data Warehouse. Creating a novel Pilot Agriculture Extension Data Warehouse followed by analysis through querying and data mining some interesting discoveries were made, such as pesticides sprayed at the wrong time, wrong pesticides used for the right reasons and temporal relationship between pesticide usage and day of the week.[7] Literature[edit] Since this research topic is quite recent, there is only one reference book. Data Mining in Agriculture is published by Springer and it is co-authored by Antonio Mucherino,Petraq Papajorgji and Panos Pardalos. A quick survey of the book can be found at this address. There are a few precision agriculture journals, such as Springer's Precision Agriculture or Elsevier's Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, but those are not exclusively devoted to data mining in agriculture. Customer analytics is a process by which data from customer behavior is used to help make key business decisions via market segmentation and predictive analytics. This information is used by businesses for direct marketing, site selection, and customer relationship management. Marketing provides services in order to satisfy customers. With that in mind, the productive system is considered from its beginning at the production level, to the end of the cycle at the consumer. Customer analytics plays a very important role in the prediction of customer behavior today.[1] Although until recently over 90% of retailers had limited visibility on their customers, with increasing investments in loyalty programs, customer tracking solutions and market research, this industry started increasing use of customer analytics in decisions ranging from product, promotion, price and distribution management. Finance Banks, insurance companies and pension funds make use of customer analytics in understanding customer lifetime value, identifying below-zero customers which are estimated to be around 30% of customer base, increasing cross-sales, managing customer attrition as well as migrating customers to lower cost channels in a targeted manner. Community Municipalities utilize customer analytics in an effort to lure retailers to their cities. Using psychographic variables, communities can be segmented based on attributes like personality, values, interests, and lifestyle. Using this information, communities can approach retailers that match their community’s profile. Customer relationship management Analytical Customer Relationship Management, commonly abbreviated as CRM, enables measurement of and prediction from customer data to provide a 360° view of the client. Predicting customer behavior[edit] Forecasting buying habits and lifestyle preferences is a process of data mining and analysis. This information consists of many aspects like credit card purchases, magazine subscriptions, loyalty card membership, surveys, and voter registration. Using these categories, profiles can be created for any organization’s most profitable customers. When many of these potential customers are aggregated in a single area it indicates a fertile location for the business to situate. Using a drive time analysis, it is also possible to predict how far a given customer will drive to a particular location. Combining these sources of information, a dollar value can be placed on each household within a trade area detailing the likelihood that household will be worth to a company. Through customer analytics, companies can make decisions with confidence because every decision is based on facts and objective Data. Data mining[edit] There are two types of categories of data mining. Predictive models use previous customer interactions to predict future events while segmentation techniques are used to place customers with similar behaviors and attributes into distinct groups. This grouping can help marketers to optimize their campaign management and targeting processes. Future[edit] By continuing to improve customer prediction techniques it will become a necessity rather than a convenient commodity for businesses to use customer analytics.[citation needed]With this valuable information there is an opportunity to fine-tune retail operations and store manager decisions. Rapid decision making will increase in speed and effectiveness in the future as tools and information become more easily accessible.[citation needed] The possibilities are still emerging, but applications in political races, jury selection, and developing clinical trial communities are areas that customer analytics could be used in the future. 