The words "process" and "finite number of operations" have been taken to mean that Hilbert was asking for an algorithm. The term "rational integer" simply refers to the integers, positive, negative or zero: 0, ±1, ±2, ... . So Hilbert was asking for a general algorithm to decide whether a given polynomial Diophantine equation with integer coefficients has a solution in integers. Such an equation has the following form: p(x_1,x_2,\ldots,x_n)=0 . The answer to the problem is now known to be in the negative: no such general algorithm can exist. Although it is unlikely that Hilbert had conceived of such a possibility, before going on to list the problems, he did presciently remark: "Occasionally it happens that we seek the solution under insufficient hypotheses or in an incorrect sense, and for this reason do not succeed. The problem then arises: to show the impossibility of the solution under the given hypotheses or in the sense contemplated." The work on the problem has been in terms of solutions in natural numbers[2] rather than arbitrary integers. But it is easy to see that an algorithm in either case could be used to obtain one for the other. If one possessed an algorithm to determine solvability in natural numbers, it could be used to determine whether an equation in n unknowns, p(x_1,x_2,\ldots,x_n)=0,\, has an integer solution by applying the supposed algorithm to the 2n equations p(\pm x_1, \pm x_2,\ldots,\pm x_n)=0. \, Conversely, an algorithm to test for solvability in arbitrary integers could be used to test a given equation for solvability in natural numbers by applying that supposed algorithm to the equation obtained from the given equation by replacing each unknown by the sum of the squares of four new unknowns. This works because of Lagrange's four-square theorem, to the effect that every natural number can be written as the sum of four squares. Diophantine sets[edit] Main article: Diophantine set Sets of natural numbers, of pairs of natural numbers (or even of n-tuples of natural numbers) that have Diophantine definitions are called Diophantine sets. Diophantine definitions can be provided by simultaneous systems of equations as well as by individual equations because the system p_1=0,\ldots,p_k=0\, is equivalent to the single equation p_1^2+\cdots+p_k^2=0.\, A recursively enumerable set can be characterized as one for which there exists an algorithm that will ultimately halt when a member of the set is provided as input, but may continue indefinitely when the input is a non member. It was the development of computability theory (also known as recursion theory) that provided a precise explication of the intutitive notion of algorithmic computability, thus making the notion of recursive enumerability perfectly rigorous. It is evident that Diophantine sets are recursively enumerable. This is because one can arrange all possible tuples of values of the unknowns in a sequence and then, for a given value of the parameter(s), test these tuples, one after another, to see whether they are solutions of the corresponding equation. The unsolvability of Hilbert's tenth problem is a consequence of the surprising fact that the converse is true: Every recursively enumerable set is Diophantine. This result is variously known as Matiyasevich's theorem (because he provided the crucial step that completed the proof) and the MRDP theorem (for Yuri Matiyasevich, Julia Robinson, Martin Davis, and Hilary Putnam). The invention of the transistor in 1947 dramatically changed the technology used in telephone systems and in the long-distance transmission networks. With the development of electronic switching systems in the 1960s, telephony gradually evolved towards digital telephony which improved the capacity, quality, and cost of the network. The development of digital data communications method, such as the protocols used for the Internet, it became possible to digitize voice and transmit it as real-time data across computer networks, giving rise to the field of Internet Protocol (IP) telephony, also known as voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP), a term that reflects the methodology memorably. VoIP has proven to be a disruptive technology that is rapidly replacing traditional telephone network infrastructure.Because there exists a recursively enumerable set that is not computable, the unsolvability of Hilbert's tenth problem is an immediate consequence. In fact, more can be said: there is a polynomial p(a,x_1,\ldots,x_n) with integer coefficients such that the set of values of a for which the equation p(a,x_1,\ldots,x_n)=0 has solutions in natural numbers is not computable. So, not only is there no general algorithm for testing Diophantine equations for solvability, even for this one parameter family of equations, there is no algorithm.We may speak of the degree of a Diophantine set as being the least degree of a polynomial in an equation defining that set. Similarly, we can call the dimension of such a set the least number of unknowns in a defining equation. Because of the existence of a universal Diophantine equation, it is clear that there are absolute upper bounds to both of these quantities, and there has been much interest in determining these bounds. Already in the 1920s Thoralf Skolem showed that any Diophantine equation is equivalent to one of degree 4 or less. His trick was to introduce new unknowns by equations setting them equal to the square of an unknown or the product of two unknowns. Repetition of this process results in a system of second degree equations; then an equation of degree 4 is obtained by summing the squares. So every Diophantine set is trivially of degree 4 or less. It is not known whether this result is best possible.