 Effective analysis requires obtaining relevant facts to answer questions, support a conclusion or formal opinion, or test hypotheses. Facts by definition are irrefutable, meaning that any person involved in the analysis should be able to agree upon them. For example, in August 2010, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimated that extending the Bush tax cuts of 2001 and 2003 for the 2011-2020 time period would add approximately $3.3 trillion to the national debt.[13] Everyone should be able to agree that indeed this is what CBO reported; they can all examine the report. This makes it a fact. Whether persons agree or disagree with the CBO is their own opinion. As another example, the auditor of a public company must arrive at a formal opinion on whether financial statements of publicly traded corporations are "fairly stated, in all material respects." This requires extensive analysis of factual data and evidence to support their opinion. When making the leap from facts to opinions, there is always the possibility that the opinion is erroneous. Cognitive biases[edit] There are a variety of cognitive biases that can adversely effect analysis. For example, confirmation bias is the tendency to search for or interpret information in a way that confirms one's preconceptions. In addition, individuals may discredit information that does not support their views. Analysts may be trained specifically to be aware of these biases and how to overcome them. Innumeracy[edit] Effective analysts are generally adept with a variety of numerical techniques. However, audiences may not have such literacy with numbers or numeracy; they are said to be innumerate. Persons communicating the data may also be attempting to mislead or misinform, deliberately using bad numerical techniques.[14] For example, whether a number is rising or falling may not be the key factor. More important may be the number relative to another number, such as the size of government revenue or spending relative to the size of the economy (GDP) or the amount of cost relative to revenue in corporate financial statements. This numerical technique is referred to as normalization[15] or common-sizing. There are many such techniques employed by analysts, whether adjusting for inflation (i.e., comparing real vs. nominal data) or considering population increases, demographics, etc. Analysts apply a variety of techniques to address the various quantitative messages described in the section above. Analysts may also analyze data under different assumptions or scenarios. For example, when analysts perform financial statement analysis, they will often recast the financial statements under different assumptions to help arrive at an estimate of future cash flow, which they then discount to present value based on some interest rate, to determine the valuation of the company or its stock. Similarly, the CBO analyzes the effects of various policy options on the government's revenue, outlays and deficits, creating alternative future scenarios for key measures. Other topics[edit] Analytics and business intelligence[edit] Main article: Analytics Analytics is the "extensive use of data, statistical and quantitative analysis, explanatory and predictive models, and fact-based management to drive decisions and actions." It is a subset of business intelligence, which is a set of technologies and processes that use data to understand and analyze business performance.[16] In education, most educators have access to a data system for the purpose of analyzing student data.[17] These data systems present data to educators in an over-the-counter data format (embedding labels, supplemental documentation, and a help system and making key package/display and content decisions) to improve the accuracy of educators’ data analyses.[18] Practitioner notes[edit] This section contains rather technical explanations that may assist practitioners but are beyond the typical scope of a Wikipedia article. Initial data analysis[edit] The most important distinction between the initial data analysis phase and the main analysis phase, is that during initial data analysis one refrains from any analysis that is aimed at answering the original research question. The initial data analysis phase is guided by the following four questions:[19] Quality of data[edit] The quality of the data should be checked as early as possible. Data quality can be assessed in several ways, using different types of analysis: frequency counts, descriptive statistics (mean, standard deviation, median), normality (skewness, kurtosis, frequency histograms, n: variables are compared with coding schemes of variables external to the data set, and possibly corrected if coding schemes are not comparable. Test for common-method variance. The choice of analyses to assess the data quality during the initial data analysis phase depends on the analyses that will be conducted in the main analysis phase.[20] Quality of measurements[edit] The quality of the measurement instruments should only be checked during the initial data analysis phase when this is not the focus or research question of the study. One should check whether structure of measurement instruments corresponds to structure reported in the literature. There are two ways to assess measurement Analysis of homogeneity (intAn electronic library (additionally alluded to as computerized library or advanced storehouse) is a centered gathering of computerized articles that can incorporate content, visual material, sound material, feature material, put away as electronic media positions (rather than print, micro structure, or other media), alongside means for arranging, putting away, and recovering the records and media contained in the library accumulation.ernal consistency), which gives an indication of the reliability of a measurement instrument. During this analysis, one inspects the variances of the items and the scales, the Cronbach's α of the scales, and the change in the Cronbach's alpha when an item would be deleted from a scale.[21] Initial transformations[edit] After assessing the quality of the data and of the measurements, one might decide to impute missing data, or to perform initial transformations of one or more variables, although this can also be done during the main analysis phase.[22] Possible transformations of variables are:[23] Square root transformation (if the distribution differs moderately from normal) Log-transformation (if the distribution differs substantially from normal) Inverse transformation (if the distribution differs severely from normal) Make categorical (ordinal / dichotomous) (if the distribution differs severely from normal, and no transformations help) Did the implementation of the study fulfill the intentions of the research design?[edit] One should check the success of the randomization procedure, for instance by checking whether background and substantive variables are equally distributed within and across groups. If the study did not need or use a randomization procedure, one should check the success of the non-random sampling, for instance by checking whether all subgroups of the population of interest are represented in sample. Other possible data distortions that should be checked are: dropout (this should be identified during the initial data analysis phase) Item nonresponse (whether this is random or not should be assessed during the initial data analysis phase) Treatment quality (using manipulation checks).[24] Characteristics of data sample[edit] In any report or article, the structure of the sample must be accurately described. It is especially important to exactly determine the structure of the sample (and specifically the size of the subgroups) when subgroup analyses will be performed during the main analysis phase. The characteristics of the data sample can be assessed by looking at: Basic statistics of important variables Scatter plots Correlations and associations Cross-tabulations[25] Final stage of the initial data analysis[edit] During the final stage, the findings of the initial data analysis are documented, and necessary, preferable, and possible corrective actions are taken. Also, the original plan for the main data analyses can and should be specified in more detail or rewritten. In order to do this, several decisions about the main data analyses can and should be made: In the case of non-normals: should one transform variables; make variables categorical (ordinal/dichotomous); adapt the analysis method? In the case of missing data: should one neglect or impute the missing data; which imputation technique should be used? In the case of outliers: should one use robust analysis techniques? In case items do not fit the scale: should one adapt the measurement instrument by omitting items, or rather ensure comparability with other (uses of the) measurement instrument(s)? In the case of (too) small subgroups: should one drop the hypothesis about inter-group differences, or use small sample techniques, like exact tests or bootstrapping? In case the randomization procedure seems to be defective: can and should one calculate propensity scores and include them as covariates in the main analyses?[26] Analysis[edit] Several analyses can be used during the initial data analysis phase:[27] Univariate statistics (single variable) Bivariate associations (correlations) Graphical techniques (scatter plots) It is important to take the measurement levels of the variables into account for the analyses, as special statistical techniques are available for each level:[28] Nominal and ordinal variables Frequency counts (numbers and percentages) Associations circumambulations (crosstabulations) hierarchical loglinear analysis (restricted to a maximum of 8 variables) loglinear analysis (to identify relevant/important variables and possible confounders) Exact tests or bootstrapping (in case subgroups are small) Computation of new variables Continuous variables Distribution Statistics (M, SD, variance, skewness, kurtosis) Stem-and-leaf displays Box plots Nonlinear analysis[edit] Nonlinear analysis will be necessary when the data is recorded from a nonlinear system. Nonlinear systems can exhibit complex dynamic effects including bifurcations, chaos,harmonics and subharmonics that cannot be analyzed using simple linear methods. Nonlinear data analysis is closely related to nonlinear system identification.[29] Main data analysis[edit] In the main analysis phase analyses aimed at answering the research question are performed as well as any other relevant analysis needed to write the first draft of the research report.[30] Exploratory and confirmatory approaches[edit] In the main analysis phase either an exploratory or confirmatory approach can be adopted. Usually the approach is decided before data is collected. In an exploratory analysis no clear hypothesis is stated before analysing the data, and the data is searched for models that describe the data well. In a confirmatory analysis clear hypotheses about the data are tested. Exploratory data analysis should be interpreted carefully. When testing multiple models at once there is a high chance on finding at least one of them to be significant, but this can be due to a type 1 error. It is important to always adjust the significance level when testing multiple models with, for example, a Bonferroni correction. Also, one should not follow up an exploratory analysis with a confirmatory analysis in the same dataset. An exploratory analysis is used to find ideas for a theory, but not to test that theory as well. When a model is found exploratory in a dataset, then following up that analysis with a confirmatory analysis in the same dataset could simply mean that the results of the confirmatory analysis are due to the same type 1 error that resulted in the exploratory model in the first place. The confirmatory analysis therefore will not be more informative than the original exploratory analysis.[31] Stability of results[edit] It is important to obtain some indication about how generalizable the results are.[32] While this is hard to check, one can look at the stability of the results. Are the results reliable and reproducible? There are two main ways of doing this: Cross-validation: By splitting the data in multiple parts we can check if an analysis (like a fitted model) based on one part of the data generalizes to another part of the data as well. Sensitivity analysis: A procedure to study the behavior of a system or model when global parameters are (systematically) varied. One way to do this is with bootstrapping. Statistical methods[edit] Many statistical methods have been used for statistical analyses. A very brief list of four of the more popular methods is: General linear model: A widely used model on which various methods are based (e.g. t test, ANOVA, ANCOVA, MANOVA). Usable for assessing the effect of several predictors on one or more continuous dependent variables. Generalized linear model: An extension of the general linear model for discrete dependent variables. Structural equation modelling: Usable for assessing latent structures from measured manifest variables. Item response theory: Models for (mostly) assessing one latent variable from several binary measured variables (e.g. an exam). 